{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 
Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li1440\ri1440\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin1440\lin1440\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Block Text;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 header;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 footer;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 endnote text;}{\*\cs20 
\additive \super \sbasedon10 endnote reference;}}{\info{\title Inside the Peabody Museum of Natural History, there stands a room, an entire room, whose walls are adorned with faithful repro}{\author Graham Cassano}{\operator Rosalind Hartigan}
{\creatim\yr2004\mo3\dy6\hr11\min25}{\revtim\yr2004\mo3\dy6\hr11\min25}{\printim\yr2004\mo3\dy2\hr22\min12}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords820}{\nofchars4675}{\nofcharsws5741}{\vern8269}}
\widowctrl\enddoc\aenddoc\aftnnar\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\oldas \fet1\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl 
{\header \pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx540\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i 
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par }\pard \s15\qc \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\i\fs28\ul On Interpretation}{\cs20\b\i\fs28\ul\super \chftn {\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs20\super \chftn }{ Remarks presented at the first public session of }{\b\i The New Haven Center for Economic Interpretation}{, \'93Organizing and Politics in New Haven\'94, March 5}{\super th}{
, 2004.
\par 
\par }}}{\b\fs28 
\par }{\i Graham Cassano
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par Inside the Peabody Museum of Natural History, there stands a room, an entire room, whose walls are adorned with faithful reproductions of the Maya murals at Bonampak. Although the precise historical texture of the mural
s remains a matter of some conjecture, archeologists and epigraphers have managed to reconstruct the narrative they contain with an adequate degree of scientific certainty. The sequence of murals represents a ritualized war. They begin and end with trumpe
ting processions of musicians and dancers who prepare the way for conquest and victory. The battle itself is depicted in gruesome detail. But perhaps the most striking scene represents the battle\rquote 
s aftermath. On a series of temple steps that ascend toward a
n arching sky filled with gods, the actors in this very real drama stand in their finery and in their misery. At the base of the temple a line of victorious warriors, in ritual masquerade, hold blood spattered spears, their eyes directed to the steps abov
e
. On those upper steps, prisoners lie prostrate, some dead, their severed heads rolling earthward, others still living, with blood pouring from severed finger-tips and open wounds. On the top step, just below the divine canopy, stands the warrior chief an
d his attendants; and before that lord, a naked prisoner kneels, his arms outstretched, perhaps in a plea for his life.}{\cs20\super \chftn {\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs20\super \chftn }{ For an illustration of segments of this mural, see Schele and Miller, }{\i The Blood of Kings: Dynasty and Ritual in Maya Art}{
, George Braziller, Inc., 1986; and, Martin and Grube, }{\i Chronicle of the Maya Kings and Queens: Deciphering the Dynasties of the Ancient Maya}{, Thames and Hudson, 2000. 
\par 
\par }}}{  
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par In recent years, scholars have come to regard the Ancient Maya as a so-called \'93great people.\'94 Their writing, their sculpture, their a
rt and their calligraphy, their poetry and drama, all signs of a powerful and dynamically literate culture. But here, in the remains of Maya art, we find the intersection of culture and class; for it was not the culture as a whole that produced the great 
works of art and literature that we associate with the Maya, but a single strata; the ruling class. And this was not art for art\rquote 
s sake. Quite the contrary. Maya iconography celebrate the rulers, their collaborators, and their victories in warfare and conqu
est. Perhaps our modern minds find this idea difficult; the idea that such powerful products of the life of the spirit find their legitimacy by legitimizing power and slaughter.  Perhaps, were we less circumspect in our language than we should be, we migh
t call the images in Maya art,--well, if not \'93primitive\'94, then at the very least, \'93barbaric\'94. And perhaps they are. But who are the barbarians? 
\par 
\par The great works of Maya iconography may have been the product of an elite within the culture, but that elite, d
evoting its time to cultivating its sense of beauty and drama, studying the movements of the stars and the processions in the heavens, spinning the grand mythologies contained in the }{\i\fs24 Popol Vuh}{\fs24 
,--that elite lived in palaces built by human hands; smoked tobacco harvested by peasants; ate corn and drank chocolate that it received in tribute from its subjects and servants and slaves. 
\par 
\par The Marxist critic, Walter Benjamin, had no knowledge of the Bonampak murals; and yet he seems almost to speak of them when he writes: 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li1440\ri1440\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin1440\lin1440\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
Whoever has emerged victorious participates to this day in the triumphal procession in which the present rulers step over those who are lying prostrate. According to traditional practice, the spoils are carried  along in the procession. They are 
called cultural treasures, and a historical materialist views them with cautious detachment. For without exception the cultural treasures he surveys have an origin which he cannot contemplate without horror. They owe their existence not only to the effort
s of the great minds and talents who have created them, but also to the anonymous toil of their contemporaries. There is no document of civilization which is not at the same time a document of barbarism.}{\cs20\super \chftn {\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain 
\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs20\super \chftn }{ Walter Benjamin, \'93Theses on the Philosophy of History\'94, pg. 256, in }{\i 
Illuminations: Essays and Reflections}{, trans. Harry Zohn, Schoken Books, 1968.
\par 
\par }}}{
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24 
\par Tonight, here in New Haven, we stand within the hea
rt of our civilization. Who could deny that Yale University has helped shape the course of contemporary America?  Here, our presidents are made. Here our science advances, not in steps but by leaps and bounds, remaking the human spirit as it remakes the h
u
man body. In the halls of the University, the rhythms of jazz and poetry rebound. Our museums are filled to the bursting with cultural treasures; our theatres play Shakespeare to packed houses; we have concerts from Ellington and archives of his compositi
ons. 
\par 
\par And, in the dead of winter, we have the New Haven Green, filled with tents since the shelters are closed. We have Yale-New Haven Hospital taking the houses of the working poor. We have unionized laborers barely making a living wage. We have gunfights
 in Fair Haven. And again, I\rquote ve must ask, who are the barbarians? 
\par 
\par The scribes and artists who created Bonampak stood with their rulers at the top of the steps. They saw the world through the eyes of the powerful and the victorious. But }{\i\fs24 they}{\fs24  did not build
 the steps upon which they stood. The time has come for another perspective. The time has come to depict the world as it looks to the builder, the laborer who stands at the bottom, outside the boundaries of the mural. This is our mission at }{\b\i\fs24 
The New Haven Center for Economic Interpretation}{\fs24 . We intend to brush our culture\rquote s fabric of representations }{\i\fs24 against the grain}{\fs24 . We hope to give voice to the hopes that lay voiceless in the ruins of capitalism\rquote 
s machinery. We see the world from the bottom, and recognize the truth that lies buried beneath the lies imposed by the rulers\rquote  hegemony. We acknowledge Marx\rquote s famous eleventh thesis, \'93The philosophers have only }{\i\fs24 interpreted }{
\fs24 the world, in various ways; the point is to }{\i\fs24 change}{\fs24  it.\'94}{\cs20\fs24\super \chftn {\footnote\ftnalt \pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs20\super \chftn }{ Karl Marx, \'93Theses on Feuerbach\'94, pg. 123, in Marx and Engels, }{\i The German Ideology}{, ed. C. J. Arthur, International Publishers, 1970.  
\par 
\par }}}{\fs24  But we add the caveat that change begins with }{\i\fs24 critical reinterpretation}{\fs24 .
\par 
\par 
\par }}